[Music]
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
I respectfully address you, Madam, and all the
attendees.
When I'm practicing walking meditation and sitting meditation, I
have some thoughts that arise in my mind,
and I don't understand what they mean,
so I'd like to ask you to explain them to me
.  When entering a
wide open space, the thought arises that one should enter
this area so that the grass flattens,
making people less afraid. Is this a delusion
or a conscious thought?  Yes.  Please teach
me, teacher, so that I may learn.
Highly commendable.  So, as you can
see, what are the benefits of this?  That's the benefit
of meditation, isn't it, fellow practitioners
?  I just discovered it;
how else would I have discovered it if I hadn't meditated,
right?  That's the benefit.  So, stepping on
the grass to flatten it so
others can walk on it—that stems from a mindset of
clinging to goodness.  But even now,
Buddhists still have to accept goodness.  But we
just need to take note.  Note that this means
which sessions you should participate in and which sessions you
shouldn't participate in.  While we are practicing meditation like
this, let's not do other things
so that we can dedicate our time to meditation.  But
that idea comes from accepting goodness.
From this acceptance of goodness,
conflict will arise, my esteemed fellow practitioners.
What does winning or losing matter?  And envy.  Dear friends, please remember
this.  Therefore, practicing meditation offers
many opportunities for us to discover
our own minds.  Therefore, when we do
good deeds without clinging to them, that is what
we truly need to achieve, my esteemed fellow
practitioners.  I do a lot of work,
but I don't feel like my mind is attached
to it.  At that time,
I helped people a lot,
but when they betrayed me, I did
n't feel sad; instead, I always maintained a
loving and supportive attitude towards those who harmed
me.
Then we must achieve the state of
non-attachment to goodness.  To achieve the
Dharma of non-attachment to goodness, one must know how to practice it
and teach it to others.  Do you all understand
this point, fellow practitioners?  It's only when you let go of your
ego that you can achieve that.  But if
I still cling to the idea of ​​goodness and don't
want anyone to be better than me, then I won't
teach.  Isn't that right, fellow practitioners?  A person who accepts
goodness doesn't want anyone to be better than them
.  And those who accept goodness will still be envious
of those who teach them.  Therefore, even the act of
accepting goodness is met with
absolute disobedience to the guide.  So,
have you all understood?  There are many contributing factors
that cause our minds to become
confined within purely virtuous thoughts, my esteemed fellow practitioners
.  There.  Well, this is
a bit far-fetched, but Yen was
only talking about the physical appearance like that.  Therefore, if
we wish to, with
virtuous and knowledgeable people, when we contemplate that
something is beneficial and selfless,
then it should be just a matter of one swallow with another.  It should be
strictly followed and completed with
excellence.  That's how Yen has practiced and must always
practice, my esteemed fellow practitioners.  Therefore, when
Yen heard the Buddha's teachings from her teacher,
it aroused her joy
and a desire to practice them excellently.
Where did this come from?  It is through
our karmic actions of always obeying
virtuous teachers and mentors that we
excel and never show ingratitude.  My fellow practitioners
, please do not be ungrateful or arrogant.  So,
is it difficult to cultivate virtue, my fellow practitioners?   It's getting
difficult.  But one must be able to think critically
in order to know how to practice.  Without the ability to think, one
doesn't know how to practice spiritual cultivation.  Right?
I need to figure that out first before
I know how to do it.  To be able to think critically, one
must be close to virtuous and knowledgeable people.  Everyone's the same
.  From
earthworms, does this mean that in our beginningless lives, we were all
animals?  Think of it like starting
from a worm; if you want to tremble and rise up,
you have to learn gradually
.  I didn't think that in my
mind I still had the karma of a
worm.  I thought he had escaped all his karma
.  So, people just think they're
smart.  That means people are always
attached to what they have, so
they forget about karma.  So, does that mean I
myself am not yet free from the karmic consequences of the three
evil paths? If the karma isn't gone, there are still causes and effects,
right, dear fellow practitioners?  It still has the nuclei of the trembling creature
.  Running away is really stupid.  Therefore, if you are close to
a virtuous and knowledgeable person and learn something, just follow their teachings and
escape the karmic cycle of being like a
worm; that's the best thing to do.  Isn't that right, my esteemed
friend?  That's what Yen just shared and said to
entertain the general public, but it's very
true.  That's it, my esteemed fellow practitioners.  There.
[Music]
[Applause]